>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
JANUARY 12th, ANOTHER STEP
FORWARD ON THE DEAL THAT WIL
CURTAIL IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, NEARLY
70 YEARS LATER GERMANY IS STIL
TRYING TO PROSECUTE FORMER NAZIS
BECAUSE OF THEIR ROLE IN THE
HOLOCAUST.
>> BECAUSE OF THEIR AGE THES
MEN MAY NEVER REACH TRIAL OR G
TO PRISON BUT IT IS JUST AND
RIGHT THAT WE GO AFTER THESE
CASES.
>>> AND FIVE DECADES AFTER THE
SURGEON GENERAL'S FIRST HEALTH
WARNINGS, NEW CONCERNS ABOUT THE
DANGERS OF SMOKING
NEXT ON PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> GOOD EVENING, THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US
THEY ANNOUNCED THEY HAVE
OVERCOME THE LAST PROCEDURAL
AGREEMENT AND THE INSTITUTE TH
NUCLEAR DEAL, THE DEAL EFFECTIVE
JANUARY 20th FREEZES MUCH OF
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM FOR SIX
MONTHS
IN EXCHANGE THE WEST WILL EASE
SOME OF THE ECONOMIC SANCTIONS
ON IRAN.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERR
CALLED IT A SIGNIFICANT STEP
FORWARD IN EFFORTS TO PREVEN
IRAN FROM GETTING A NUCLEA
WEAPON
THE TWO SIDES SET TO RESUM
NEGOTIATIONS ON A BROADE
LONG-TERM DEAL
>>> IN PARIS TODAY, KERRY ME
WITH EUROPEAN AND ARAB FOREIGN
MINISTERS IN AN EFFORT TO GET
WESTERN-BACKED SYRIAN OPPOSITION
GROUP IN THE TALK.
THE TALKS IN SWITZERLAND WEE
AFTER NEXT
SYRIAN OPPOSITION DEEPLY DIVIDED
WITH RIVAL GROUPS FIGHTING ONE
REGIME
IT'S LED TO ESTIMATED 130,00
DEATHS
IN ISRAEL ARIEL SHARON'S BOD
TAKEN TO THE PARLIAMENT BUILDING
WHERE HUNDREDS LINED UP TO PAY
RESPECTS TO THE LATE MILITAR
AND POLITICAL LEADER
HE DIED YESTERDAY AT 85 AFTE
EIGHT YEARS IN A COMA.
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN AMONG
DIGNITARIES KPEBTED TO WIN
MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR SHARO
TOMORROW
AT THE VATICAN POPE FRANCI
NAMED 19 CARDINALS INCLUDING
FOUR FROM LATIN AMERICA, TWO
FROM AFRICAN, ONE FROM HAITI AND
ANOTHER FROM THE PHILIPPINE.
THE APPOINTMENT OF NON-EUROPEA
CARDINALS REFLECT THE POPE'S
BELIEF THAT THE CHURCH SHOULD BE
FOR THE POOR
CARDINALS UNDER 80 SELECT A NE
POPE AND HELP SET NEW POLICIES
FOR THE WORLD'S 1.2 BILLIO
CATHOLICS.
THERE WAS A VERY LATE CHRISTMA
DELIVERY IN SPACE.
SIX ASTRONAUTS ABOARD ORBITING
SPACE STATION USED ARM T
CAPTURE A SPACE CAPSULE WITH
EQUIPMENT AND CHRISTMA
PRESENTS
THE SPACE CAPSULE PROVIDED BY
PRIVATE COMPANY WAS TO HAV
LAUNCHED LAST MONTH BUT IT WAS
DELAYED BY REPAIR WORK DONE ON
THE SPACE STATION, A SOLAR STORM
AND THEN COLD WEATHER AT THE
LAUNCH SITE.
AN ESTIMATED 300,000 WES
VIRGINIANS WENT WITH LITTLE OR
NO DRINKING WATER FOR A FOURTH
DAY TODAY AFTER A MAJOR CHEMICAL
SPILL IN THE CAPITAL CITY OF
CHARLESTON
OFFICIALS SAY 7500 GALLONS O
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICAL SPILLED INTO
A RIVER THERE THURSDAY MORNING
LOCAL RESIDENTS RELYING AS BES
THEY CAN ON WATER DELIVERY
FEMA SAID IT SENT A QUARTE
MILLION GALLONS OF WATER TO TH
AFFECTED AREA.
JOINING US NOW FROM CHARLESTON
VIA SKYPE, THE STATE HOUSE
REPORTER FOR WEST VIRGINIA
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
SO YOU'VE BEEN LIVING THROUG
THIS FOR THE PAST FEW DAYS
WHAT'S IT BEEN LIKE?
>> I HAVE BEEN LIVING THROUG
THIS
I WILL SAY THIS MORNING WAS TH
FIRST TIME I GOT THE OPPORTUNITY
TO TAKE A SHOWER SINCE THURSDA
MORNING, HAD TO DRIVE ABOUT HALF
AN HOUR TO FIND A HOTEL.
LUCKILY ON A PUBLIC SERVIC
DISTRICT THAT'S A LOT SMALLER.
I THINK THAT'S THE EXPERIENC
THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE HAVING,
HAVING TO DRIVE 20 30RKS, 40
MINUTES TO FIND ANOTHER WATE
SYSTEM
>> HOW ARE PEOPLE IN THE ARE
DEALING WITH THIS?
ARE TEMPERS RISING
>> I THINK WE'RE STARTING TO SEE
THEM SLOWLY, COLLECTIVELY RISE
I EXPERIENCE ADD LOT O
FRUSTRATION AT THE HOTEL I WAS
AT OFFERING FREE SHOWERS T
PEOPLE
OBVIOUSLY PEOPLE ARE GRATEFU
FOR WHAT THESE BUSINESSES AR
TRYING TO DONATE
BUT AT THE SAME TIME YOU CAN'T
DRINK THE WATER, YOU CAN'T
BATHE, YOU CAN'T DO DISHES, YO
CAN'T DO LAUNDRY
I THINK ALL OF THAT IS STARTIN
TO BUILD UP AND REALLY B
FRUSTRATING FOR THE PEOPLE I
THE AREA
>> WHAT'S HAPPENED TO ALL TH
BUSINESSES IN THIS AREA?
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HOTELS AND
RESTAURANTS THAT CAN'T STAY OPEN
BECAUSE PEOPLE CAN'T WASH THEI
HANDS, RIGHT
>> AT THIS POINT, THE COUNTY
HEALTH DEPARTMENT IN NIN
AFFECTED COUNTIES HAVE ORDERED
ALL BUSINESSES, RESTAURANT
CLOSED
NOW, YESTERDAY THEY STARTE
TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR YOU TO
BE ABLE TO OPEN DURING THI
TIME
WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO IS SHO
YOU'RE USING A SECONDARY WATER
SOURCE
SO THIS MORNING IN THE CAPITAL
CITY OF CHARLESTON, WE HAV
ABOUT FOUR RESTAURANTS ABLE TO
OPEN SO FAR USING BOTTLED WATER,
PAPER PLATES, HAND SANITIZERS IN
REST ROOMS
AT THIS POINT THOSE AR
CONTINGENCY PLANS.
THE PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT I
TAKING THOSE IN, REVIEWING
APPLICATIONS, DOING ON-SIT
REVIEWS BEFORE ANYBODY CAN
REOPEN
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S A LONG PROCES
TO GET ANYBODY TO BE ABLE TO
OPEN THEIR BUSINESS AGAIN.
>> ALL RIGHT, WEST VIRGINI
PUBLIC BROADCASTING, THANKS SO
MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
>> THANK YOU
>>
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT FEATURING ORIGINAL
IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND THE
NATION AND AROUND THE WORLD.
TONIGHT WE TAKE YOU TO GERMANY
THERE NEARLY 70 YEARS AFTER TH
END OF WORLD WAR II, THE
GOVERNMENT IS INTENSIFYING
EFFORTS TO EDUCATE YOUNG GERMANS
ABOUT NAZI WAR CRIMES AND STIL
PURSUING THOSE WHO COMMITTED
THEM
JUST THIS WEEK PROSECUTORS
BROUGHT MURDER CHARGES AGAINST
AN 88-YEAR-OLD MAN, A FORMER
MEMBER OF AN SS ARMORED DIVISION
THAT SLAUGHTERED MORE THAN 600
FRENCH VILLAGERS
OUR CORRESPONDENT TRAVELED T
LUDWIG GERMANY
THERE THE SEARCH GOES ON FOR WAR
CRIMINALS WHO GOT AWAY WITH MASS
MURDER
>> Reporter: FROM THE OUTSIDE,
IT LOOKS LIKE A BEAUTIFUL OL
ESTATE
BUT THIS IS NO PRIVATE
RESIDENCE.
INSIDE INVESTIGATORS FOR THE
GERMAN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AR
POURING THROUGH DECADES OL
RECORDS, SEARCHING FOR THE LAS
REMAINING NAZI WAR CRIMINALS WHO
MIGHT HAVE ESCAPED JUSTICE
THIS IS PART OF A MUCH BROADER
NATIONAL EFFORT UNDER WAY IN
GERMANY TO WRESTLE WITH TH
LEGACY OF THE HOLOCAUST.
IT INCLUDES CONSTRUCTION O
MEMORIALS AND MUSEUMS AT A
RECORD PACE.
THE REVAMPING OF THE NATION'
CURRICULUM SO THAT ALL GERMA
SCHOOL KIDS GET A FULL
UNDERSTANDING OF THE NAZI ERA.
PERHAPS FEW ARE AS CRUCIAL T
THE EFFORT AS THIS MAN
HE RUNS THE CENTRAL OFFICE I
GERMANY STILL TRYING TO BRIN
FORMER NAZIS TO JUSTICE.
>> Translator: RIGHT NOW ONL
MURDER IS PUNISHABLE
ALL OTHER CRIMES HAVE PASSED THE
STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS AND CAN
NO LONGER BE PUBLISHED
>> Reporter: 41 YEARS AGO HE WAS
A PROSECUTOR
WHEN THIS HISTORY BUFF HEARD O
AN OPENING IN AN INVESTIGATIVE
OFFICE FOR WAR CRIMINALS H
JUMPED AT THE CHANCE
SOON AFTER A CONVERSATION WITH
ONE HOLOCAUST SURVIVOR DROVE
HOME THE IMPORTANCE OF HIS WORK.
>> Translator: I MET AN ELDERL
JEWISH LADY IN NEW YORK AT THE
END OF THE 1980s WHO SURVIVE
WAR.
SHE SAID I'VE BEEN WAITING MOR
THAN 40 YEARS FOR A GERMAN
OFFICIAL TO BE INTERESTED IN M
CASE
SHE TOLD ME IT DOESN'T MATTE
WHETHER THIS PERSON IS PUT O
TRIAL OR GOES TO PRISON.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING IS THAT
YOU LISTEN TO MY STORY
>> SCHRIMM WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
MAN HE'S INVESTIGATING
PROSECUTED
ESTABLISHING THEIR GUILT I
COURT HAS BEEN COMPLICATED
FOLLOWING WORLD WAR II TO QUIB
A GERMAN SOLDIER OF MURDER
PROSECUTORS HAD TO PROVE A
DIRECT PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE KILLING OF AN INNOCENT
PERSON
SELL YEAR AGO GERMAN
SUCCESSFULLY PROSECUTE
91-YEAR-OLD RETIRED OHIO AUT
WORKER WITH BEING AN ACCESSORY
TO THE MURDERS COMMITTED WHILE
HE WAS A GUARD AT THE NAZI DEATH
CAMP
NOW HE'S HOPING TO USE THA
LEGAL PRECEDENT TO PROSECUTE
DOZENS OF OTHERS INCLUDING
GUARDS WHO WORKED AT THE
AUSCHWITZ CAMP
TO BUILD THEIR CASES, THEY HAV
NOT ONLY TALKED TO SURVIVORS BUT
DRAWING ON THE NAZIS OWN
METICULOUS RECORDS AND MAPS OF
THE CAMPS, INVESTIGATORS TRIED
TO DETERMINE IF GUARDS OR EVEN
LOW LEVEL WORKERS LIKE COOKS
KNEW ABOUT OR WITNESSED TH
GENOCIDE
>> Translator: FOR THESE CASES
WE WENT TO AUSCHWITZ PERSONALL
AND LOOKED AT THE WHOLE CAMP AND
SAW WHETHER FROM THE KITCHEN YOU
COULD SEE NEW PEOPLE ARRIVING OR
THE GAS CHAMBER.
>> AFTER THE INVESTIGATION, HI
OFFICE RECOMMENDED 30 GUARDS
MEN IN THEIR LATE 80s AND 90s,
BE PROSECUTED AS ACCESSORY T
MURDER
>> GIVEN MANY OF THESE MEN ARE
IN THEIR MID TO LATE 90s, MANY
OF THEM MAY NOT LIVE TO SEE
TRIAL, LET ALONE A PRISON CELL
HOW MUCH OF THIS DO YOU BELIEV
IS SYMBOLISM AND HOW MUCH IS
JUSTICE ACTUALLY BEING SERVED?
>> Translator: I THINK ON ON
HAND IT'S IMPORTANT FO
SURVIVORS, VICTIMS, THAT CASES
ARE INVESTIGATED
ON THE OTHER HAND IT'S ALS
IMPORTANT FOR GERMANY.
DURING THE WAR, GERMAN
COMMITTED SUCH TERRIBLE CRIMES
THAT AFTER THE WAR GERMANY HAD A
TERRIBLE REPUTATION.
WE TRY TO IMPROVE THAT
REPUTATION BY PROSECUTING THES
CASES.
>> Translator: THE CURRENT
GENERATION NO LONGER HAS T
DIRECTLY CONFRONT WHAT HAPPENED.
IN MY OPINION, THE TRIAL, AN
THESE 30 OR HOWEVER MANY NAMES
WERE FOUND, THEY HAVE A FUNCTION
TO EXPLAIN TO PEOPLE WHA
HAPPENED THE CRIMES OF THA
PERIOD
>> Reporter: AN 81-YEAR-OL
HOLOCAUST SURVIVAL
AS A CHILD GROWING UP IN MUNICH,
HE AND HIS FAMILY GREW UP NEXT
TO THE SYNAGOGUE WHICH WAS
EVENTUALLY DESTROYED
HE AND HIS FAMILY WENT TO
CAMP
HE SAYS THE PRIORITY TODAY MUS
BE TO UNDERSTAND THE ROOTS O
THOSE CRIMES NOT JUS
PROSECUTING THE PERPETRATORS O
THEM
>> AS SOMEONE WHO WITNESSE
THESE CRIMES FIRSTHAND, YOU MUST
HAVE A VERY EMOTIONAL CONNECTION
TO THEM.
>> Translator: GIVEN THAT APAR
FROM MY PARENTS, ALL OUR FAMIL
WAS KILLED, IT GOES WITHOU
SAYING IT'S ALWAYS A DIFFICULT
MOMENT FOR ME.
THE OLDER I GET, THE MOR
EMOTIONAL AN IMPACT IT HAS O
ME
BUT IT CAN'T BE ABOUT THAT
WE WANT THE WORDS WE SAY MAK
SURE THESE CRIMES DON'T HAPPEN
AGAIN.
THE EMPHASIS SHOULD BE ON TH
TIME RUNNING UP TO THE WAR AND
OF COURSE, WHAT'S HAPPENIN
TODAY.
>> WHAT'S HAPPENING TODAY IS THE
RISE OF WHAT HE BELIEVES ARE
FRIGHTENINGLY SIMILAR PREJUDICES
IN SOCIETY, WHAT HE EXPERIENCE
AS A JEWISH CHILD 70 YEARS AGO
ACCORDING TO THE GERMA
GOVERNMENT, THERE'S BEEN A SHARP
RISE IN NEO-NAZI CRIMES IN
GERMANY IN RECENT YEARS, MOST OF
THEM TARGETED AT GERMANY'S
GROWING IMMIGRANT POPULATION
TURKS, AND OTHERS CALLED
GYPSIES.
IN A HIGH-PROFILE CASE MEMBERS
OF A NEO-NAZI SUBGROUP ARE O
TRIAL FOR 10 RACIALLY MOTIVATE
MURDERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
LAST YEAR GERMAN CHANCELLO
ANGELA MERKEL FELT THE NEED TO
APOLOGIZE FOR THESE RACIST
CRIMES CALLING THEM HE
COUNTRY'S SHAME.
LATER MERKEL VISITED DACHA
CONCENTRATION CAMP AND AGAIN
WARNED OF THE GROWING EXTREMIS
IN HER COUNTRY
FOR HIS PART HE COUNTERS THE
EXTREMISM BY VISITING CLASSROOMS
AND REMINDING STUDENTS THERE ARE
ECHOS OF THE PAST ALL AROUND
>> Translator: WHAT SHAPES M
LIFE TODAY ARE CHILDHOOD
EXPERIENCES OF BEING OSTRACIZED,
BEING MOCKED FOR BEING A JEW
BEING ISOLATED FOR BEING A JEW
BEING ATTACKED FOR BEING A GYPSY
AS PEOPLE SAID AT THE TIME
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT MUST BE
AND I BELIEVE CAN BE CONVEYED TO
YOUNG PEOPLE
THAT'S WHAT DRIVES ME TO BE SO
ACTIVE TODAY
>> THIS ONGOING REMEMBRANCE OF
THE HOLOCAUST IS HARDLY LIMITE
TO FEW REMAINING SURVIVORS O
THE WORLD.
GERMANY PUT UP HOLOCAUST MUSEUMS
IN HISTORICAL EXHIBITIONS IN ALL
MAJOR CITIES
THE NATION'S SCHOOLS REQUIRED TO
TEACH IN-DEPTH LESSONS ON TH
NAZI ERA TO MIDDLE AND HIG
SCHOOLERS.
ALMOST ALL GERMAN STUDENTS HAV
VISITED A CONCENTRATION CAMP O
HOLOCAUST MUSEUM
COMES IN MORE PERSONAL WAYS.
>> I HOPE IT WILL NEVER HAPPEN
AGAIN.
IF IT WOULD START AGAIN, I
WOULD START ANYWHERE BUT HERE.
IN OUR STREETS IN OUR CITY, IN
OUR VILLAGE, IN OUR SCHOOL
>> Reporter: AN ARTIST I
MUNICH, THE CITY WHICH ADOLF
HITLER CALLED THE CAPITAL OF THE
NAZI MOVEMENT, ONE CITY OFTE
CRITICIZED FOR DOWNPLAYING ITS
ROLE IN THE RISE OF THE THIR
REICH.
WHILE MUNICH SAW THE OPENING O
THE JEWISH MUSEUM IN 2007 AND IS
CURRENTLY BUILDING A MAJOR
CENTER ON THE HISTORY OF
NAZIISM, CRITICS ARGUE THE CIT
STILL DOESN'T DO NEARLY ENOUGH
TO ACKNOWLEDGE ITS PAST.
FOR EXAMPLE, AT ONE OF THE
CITY'S MAJOR LANDMARKS, THERE'
BARELY A SIGN THAT IT WAS TH
CENTER STAGE FOR MANY OF
HITLER'S LARGE NAZI RALLIES OR
THIS WAS WHERE NAZI YOUTH HA
NOTORIOUS BOOK BURNINGS.
>> THEY WANT THE CITY VERY CLEAN
FOR TOURISM, TO INVITE PEOPL
FROM ALL OVER WORLD TO COME TO
MUNICH
AND IT'S ALL NICE AND WONDERFU
AND PRETTY AND IT'S SO MARVELOUS
AND BAVARIAN
THE BLACK MARKS, THE DARK POINTS
OF HISTORY
>> AMONG MANY WORKS HE'S DEFIE
AUTHORITIES BY BURNING BLACK
CIRCLES AS A SYMBOLIC REMINDER
OF BOOK BURNINGS 70 YEARS AGO.
HIS PROJECT HAS BEEN TO TELL THE
STORIES OF PARTICULAR JEWISH
FAMILIES WHO LIVED IN MUNICH
DURING THE 1930s AND WHO WER
SENT TO CONCENTRATION CAMPS BY
THE NAZIS.
TO DO SO HE PAINTS THESE
SUITCASES SIMILAR TO THE ONE
VICTIMS CARRY TO THE CAMPS AND
PLACES THEM OUTSIDE THE VERY
BUILDINGS WHERE THE FAMILIES
LIVED.
>> OWNS THIS SHOP.
THIS IS MY HOUSE
I'M LIVING HERE IN THE SECON
FLOOR.
THERE LIVED THE FAMILY AND THE
WERE KILLED.
>> WHY
>> IF YOU SEE A GIRL, A FACE,
STORY, A HISTORY OF HER SITTIN
ON YOUR PLACE BEFORE, IT'S
ANOTHER FEELING.
IT'S ANOTHER FEELING
HISTORY COMES NEAR
>> IN THE END, GERMANY IS DOIN
WHAT FEW NATIONS HAVE DONE
BEFORE, NOT CELEBRATING IT
GREATEST ACCOMPLISHMENTS BUT
BUILDING MONUMENTS TO IT
DARKEST TIME, DETERMINED TO KEEP
HISTORY CLEARLY IN SIGHT
>> Translator: NOWADAYS IT'S
ABOUT COMMUNICATING HOW IT CAM
TO PASS THAT SUCH THINGS COULD
HAPPEN
WHAT HAPPENED BEFORE AUSCHWITZ
BUCHENWALD, WHAT HAPPENED BEFORE
DACHAU, THAT'S ONE ASPECT.
THAT'S OKAY, BUT WHAT'S THAT GOT
TO DO WITH ME TODAY?
>> Translator: ACCORDING T
GERMAN LAW, WE ARE COMMITTED T
PROSECUTING THESE CASES.
IT'S TRUE BECAUSE OF THEIR AGE
THESE MEN MAY NEVER REACH TRIA
OR GO TO PRISON.
BUT IT IS JUST AND RIGHT THAT WE
GO AFTER THESE CASES
>> HIS WORK HAS GOTTEN RESULTS
MONDAY THOSE CONVICTED TWO
FORMER SS OFFICERS, ONE IN 199
AND ANOTHER IN 2002.
>>> LEARN ABOUT A NEW MUSIC AP
GERMAN POLICE USING TO TRACK
NEO-NAZI
VISIT MISSIC HOUR@PBS.ORG.
>>> FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF 196
REPORT BY THEN SURGEON GENERAL
WARNING ABOUT THE DANGERS OF
SMOKING.
THAT REPORT AND POLICIES THA
FOLLOWED WERE WIDELY CREDITE
WITH SAVING MILLIONS OF LIVES.
FOR MORE ON THE GOVERNMENT'S
CURRENT EFFORTS WE'RE JOINED O
REAR ADMIRAL, ACTING UNITE
STATES SURGEON GENERAL
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US.
I JUST WANTED TO START WIT
WHERE ARE WE ON THIS TOBACCO WAR
AGAINST SMOKING CONSIDERING TH
LONG TIME WE'VE HAD IN FIGHTIN
IT
>> OVER THESE 50 YEARS
INCREDIBLE THINGS HAVE TAKEN
PLACE.
OUR SOCIETY HAS CHANGED.
CHANGED IN TERMS OF TOBACCO USE,
IN TERMS OF ITS ACCEPTANCE O
SMOKING IN PUBLI
ESTABLISHMENTS, IN RESTAURANTS
IN BARS.
THINGS HAVE CHANGED FOR TH
BETTER
IN ADDITION OUR SMOKING RATE
HAVE COME DOWN IN THE UNITED
STATES
WE WENT FROM 43% OF ADUL
SMOKERS IN THE UNITED STATES T
18% CURRENTLY.
THAT'S REALLY MADE INCREDIBL
HEADWAY.
I HAVE TO EMPHASIZE THE BATTLE
ISN'T OVER, THE WAR ISN'T OVER
18% OF AMERICANS, ADULTS WHO ARE
STILL SMOKING, BASICALLY 4
MILLION PEOPLE IN OU
POPULATION
WE HAVE TO REALIZE ALSO OF THA
WHOLE GROUP WE'RE GOING TO HAV
ROUGHLY A HALF MILLION PEOPL
EVERY YEAR DYING FROM SMOKIN
RELATED DISEASES
ALTHOUGH WE'VE MADE PROGRESS I
A HALF CENTURY, THE REALITY IS
WE STILL HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO
DO
>> WE INCREASINGLY SEE TOUGH
ADVERTISEMENTS ON THE AI
AGAINST SMOKING.
ARE THESE ADS WORKING?
>> I THINK THEY ARE WORKING.
IN PARTICULAR THE CDC, CENTE
FOR DISEASE CONTROL AN
PREVENTION CAME UP WITH A SERIES
OF ADVERTISEMENTS CALLED TIPS.
THAT WAS EFFECTIVE REDUCING TH
NUMBER OF SMOEBERS
POLICIES THAT NEED TO BE
IMPLEMENTED AND FURTHE
IMPLEMENTED IN ORDER TO MAKE U
A TOBACCO-FREE SOCIETY
WE REALLY HAVE TO WORK AT TH
IDEA OF USING MEDIA, USING THOSE
ADVERTISEMENTS
WE HAVE TO LOOK AT REALL
CONCENTRATING ON THE YOUTH O
AMERICA TO MAKE IT MOR
DIFFICULT TO GET CIGARETTES.
IN ADDITION WE HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE IDEA OF PRICING CIGARETTES
APPROPRIATELY SO THAT ULTIMATELY
BECOMES A HARDSHIP TO USE THOS
PRODUCTS
>> LETS TALK A LITTLE ABOU
PACKAGING WHEN IT COMES TO
HARDSHIP OF USING THOS
PRODUCTS
OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE MUCH MORE
GRAPHIC DETAIL OF POTENTIA
DANGERS OF SMOKING
I KNOW THE U.S. COURT STRUCK
DOWN ONE OF THE PLANS HERE
WHAT'S NEXT?
DO WE CHANGE PACKAGING
>> WE'RE CURRENTLY WORKING
CLOSELY.
THE OFFICE OF THE SURGEO
GENERAL WORKING CLOSELY WITH
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
SPECIFICALLY THE CENTER FO
TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND REANALYZING
THE WHOLE ROLE OF THE IDEA O
WARNING LABELS AND HOW GRAPHIC
IT WOULD BE.
THERE'S PROBABLY MOR
INFORMATION ON THIS COMING OUT
IN THE FUTURE.
>> DOES IT MAKE SENSE TO
INCREASE TAXES ON CIGARETTES
>> IN TERMS OF ONE OF TH
EFFECTIVE METHODS OF U
DECREASING THE NUMBER OF SMOKERS
IN AMERICA, ODDLY THE PRICE OF
CIGARETTES
RATHER THAN IN THE FORM OF
PRICING OF CIGARETTE PRICING
THAT IS AN EFFECTIVE MEASURE
ALTHOUGH THIS DOES BECOME, I
USED THIS TERM BEFORE, A
HARDSHIP
IN REALITY MY ROLE AS SURGEO
GENERAL IS TO MAKE SURE WE'R
DOING THE RIGHT THING, WHICH I
TO DECREASE THE NUMBER O
SMOKERS IN AMERICA
YES, PRICING IS AN EFFECTIVE WAY
OF DEALING WITH THIS PROBLEM
>> ONE OF THE THINGS I WANTED TO
ASK AND A LOT OF PEOPLE ASKING
WHEN WE SAID WE WERE GOING T
INTERVIEW YOU.
THIS SHIFT TO E-CIGARETTES
WHAT DOES THE SURGEON GENERAL ON
E-CIGARETTES, DELETERIOU
EFFECTS TO THE REST OF US OR
EVEN THOSE PEOPLE STILL USIN
THEM
>> YEAH, THE E-CIGARETTE
MOVEMENT CERTAINLY HAS BECOM
STRONG
THERE'S MORE PEOPLE USIN
E-CIGARETTES
RIGHT NOW WE'RE GATHERING DATA
I DON'T FEEL COMFORT WIT
E-CIGARETTES BEING A SUBSTITUT
AT THIS POINT.
THE REALITY IS THEY ARE STILL AN
ADDICTIVE PRODUCT IN
E-CIGARETTES INTRODUCED TO THE
BODY VIA RESPIRATORY TRACK, VI
BREATHING.
THE REALITY OF THE SITUATION I
WE'RE STILL WAITING ON GATHERING
MORE DATA.
AGAIN, WORKING WITH FOOD AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION, CENTER FO
TOBACCO PRODUCTS, LOOKING MUCH
MORE AGGRESSIVELY AT THE
E-CIGARETTES ISSUE
>> ANOTHER QUESTION WE HAD FRO
A MOTHER IN COLORADO WHERE
MARIJUANA HAS RECENTLY BECOM
MUCH MORE ACCESSIBLE
SHE'S SAYING WHAT ABOUT TH
IMPACT OF SECONDHAND MARIJUANA
SMOKE, ANYTHING THE FEDERA
GOVERNMENT GOING TO BE DOING T
TRY TO KEEP HER KIDS SAFE.
>> FROM A PUBLIC ASPECT,
MARIJUANA HAS BEEN BIG
CERTAINLY LEGALIZATION I
COLORADO
EITHER OF CONCERN TO ME ACTING
SURGEON GENERAL OF THE UNITE
STATES
THAT BEING SAID IT'S ON SEVERA
FRONT.
ONE OF WHICH IS MARIJUANA IS
ADDICTIVE.
SECONDLY, ONCE AGAIN SOMETHING
THAT'S BREATHED IN
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT TH
RESPIRATORY EFFECTS OF
MARIJUANA.
THIRD, IT DOES ALTER ONE'S
COGNITION, ONE'S THOUGHT
PROCESS.
ON THOSE THREE REALMS, M
CONCERN IS NOT ONLY SECONDHAND
SMOKE BUT PRIMARY USER AND
AFFECT ON THAT INDIVIDUAL.
>> ACTING SURGEON GENERAL,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
>> GREAT
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>>> NOW TO AN OCCASIONAL SEGMENT
FEATURING YOUR THOUGHTS ABOU
OUR PROGRAM, WHAT WE'RE HEARIN
FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
A FEW OF YOU WHO VISITED THE
"NEWSHOUR" WEBSITE LAST NIGH
COMPLAINED ABOUT A GRAPHIC W
CREATED FOR YESTERDAY'S PROGRAM.
IT ACCOMPANIED AN INTERVIEW WE
DID.
HOLD ON, FOLKS YOU CAN'T COMPARE
THAT TO INFLATION.
CANDID ONE REPLIES TO BERNIE
FOR THOSE OF US WHO HAVE BEE
ALONG FOR THE RIDE FOR THE PAS
CENTURY, CHUCKLE, WE DIDN'T NEED
THE GRAPH TO KNOW THE STORY.
THAT GRAPH, SINCE CORRECTED ON
OUR SITE, FOLLOWED OUR SIGNATURE
PIECE ABOUT A SINGLE MOM ON LONG
ISLAND STRUGGLING TO MAKE ENDS
MEET DESPITE HAVING A FULLTIME
JOB.
THE PIECE PROMPTED A VIGOROU
CONVERSATION ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
WEBSITE ABOUT POVERTY IN
AMERICA.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE COMMENTS
BUT THOSE WHO VISITED THE PAGE
SEA SHELL 59, IN TODAY'S WORLD
ONE CAN WORK THEIR FINGERS T
THE BONE AND NOT BE ABLE T
COVER BASIC COST OF LIVING O
THEIR WAGES.
PURPLE BOUQUET SAID WHAT WE NEED
TO DO DIFFERENTLY IS STRESSING
THE LINK BETWEEN ECONOMI
HARDSHIP AND SINGLE PARENTHOOD
WE NEED TO BE MORE HONEST ABOU
THAT CONNECTION EVEN IF IT MIGHT
NOT BE POLITICALLY CORRECT
ON FACEBOOK, WE HEARD FROM
MARSIE WHO WROTE US POVERT
DIDN'T WIN THE WAR, WE JUS
STOPPED FIGHTING IT.
OUR CORRESPONDENT ON THE STORY
HAS BEEN ANSWERING QUESTIONS O
FACEBOOK FROM VIEWERS SINC
THURSDAY WHEN WE POST ADD CLIP
OF HER POVERTY PIECE
JUST A REMINDER, AN ACTIVE
CONVERSATION HAPPENING RIGHT NOW
ABOUT SEVERAL "NEWSHOUR" PIECES.
FEEL FREE TO SEND US YOU
THOUGHTS EITHER THROUGH TH
COMMENTS SECTION BELOW OUR
STORIES AT "NEWSHOUR".PBS.ORG OR
FACEBOOK PAGE OR TWEET US BACK
AT "NEWSHOUR."
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON TH
"NEWSHOUR" ON AIR AND ONLINE
WE'LL REPORT ON THE SUPREM
COURT AS IT HEARS ARGUMENTS OVER
THE PRESIDENT'S POWER TO MAK
APPOINTMENTS WHILE IN RECESS
THAT'S IT FOR "NEWSHOU
WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.